Machine learning is a branch of computer science that broadly aims to enable
computers to "learn" without being directly programmed[1]. It has origins in
the artificial intelligence movement of the 1950s and emphasizes practical
applications, particularly prediction and optimization. A machine learning 
model is a mathematical function that takes input variables
and then produces an output. Further adding to it, a preditive modeling in machine learning is the problem
of developing a model using historical data to make a prediction on new data where
we do not have the answer. The job of the modeling algorithm is to find the best
mapping function we can from input to output variables.
Machine takes two basic approaches [2]: supervised learning and unsupervised learning.
The main difference is one uses labeled data to help predict outcomes,
while the other does not. Supervised learning uses labeled datasets to train
the machine learning model. Using labeled inputs and outputs, the model
can measure its accuracy and learn over time.
Unsupervised learning uses machine learning algorithms to analyze and cluster unlabeled
datasets. The algorithms try to find the hidden patterns in the data to make a prediction.
Supervised learning is further divided into 2 types of problems namely classification predictive modeling
and regression predictive modeling. Classification predictive modeling is the task
of approximating a mapping function from input variables to discrete output
variables. The classification predictive modeling has applications such as
spam filters in email, credit card fraud detection etc[3].
Regression predictive modeling is the task of approximating a
mapping function from input variables to a continuous output variable. A continuous
output variable is a real-value, such as an integer or floating point value.
This paper explores 2 machine learning algorithms namely K-Nearest Neighbors
and Decision Trees for classification. The experiments carried out uses Fashion-MNIST
dataset to train and benchmark the models.
The MNIST dataset comprising of 10-class handwritten digits, was first introduced 
by LeCun et al 1998[4]. MNIST dataset is used for benchmarking machines learning algorithms.
MNIST comprises 70,000 grayscale images in the size of 28*28. Due to its simplicity the
Fashion-MNIST is preferred which has same number of images and dimensions. Fashion-MNIST
is based on Zalando's website. Every fashion product on Zalando has a set of pictures shot
by professional photographers. It uses the front look thumbnail images of 70,000
unique products to build the data. Those products come from different gender
groups: men, women, kids and neutral. The ten categories of Fashion-MNIST are as
follows:
-> T-shirt/top
-> Trouser
-> Pullover
-> Dress
-> Coat
-> Sandals
-> Shirt
-> Sneaker
-> Bag
-> Ankle boots
This paper will test, evaluate and compare the performance of the 2 ML algorithms on the
Fashion-MNIST using various metrics which will be explored in the later sections.

TODO: to be framed properly post completion of paper.
This paper first discusses related works in related work section.